Hi there.
This is the De La Rue.
And welcome back.
Now that we have a basic understanding of what compensation is, let's look at what platform dependency
is.
We'll also do a short demo of platform dependency.
Let's just consider a Windows machine.
And let's also assume we have written a C program called Hello.
To compile this program, we can use a compiler called DCC.
And this would be the command DCC space hyphen or space.
Hello Space Hallowed C where hallowed or C is a file containing the C program, while hyphen O is an
option that tells compiler to name the output file as hello, which will have a dot x extension on windows.
So on compiling hello dot c, we get an executable file called hello dot x e, which includes the machine
code.
Your compilation step is also doing something called linking.
Generally, any software comprises of many source code files, and each source code file is compiled
into a separate file called the object file, which has an extension dot or dot object.
For example, in this case, it could be Hello Dot or.
And these object files are then group or linked to form a final executable file.
This linking in many cases is done by the compiler itself.
However, it can also be done manually by programmers themselves using another program called linker.
In this example, compiler does the linking and thus generating an executable called hello dot x which
is finally executed by just typing in.
Hello at the command line.
Similarly, we can also compile the same C program on a Linux machine using the same command as on Windows,
and this will also produce an executable.
But in Linux the executable will be named as hello dot.
So the extension is out here rather than x.
Which can then be executed by typing dot for forward slash.
Hello.
So what we have here is both the executables being successfully executed on the machines on which those
executables are generated.
But this wouldn't be possible.
That is.
Hello executable generated on windows machine cannot be executed on Linux and that is an example of
platform dependency that is hallowed x can be run only on Windows operating system.
To run it on Linux we would have to recompile hallowed C program on Linux.
Similarly, the halo executable generated on Linux cannot be executed on a Windows machine.
You would have to recompile on Windows, so that generated executable is specific to the operating system.
So platform dependency has to do with operating system.
And one main reason is due to the format of the executable file generated.
It is due to the file format.
Windows uses a format called P which stands for portable executable.
While Linux uses a format called L F, which stands for executable and linker format.
In case you are interested about these formats, you can read more about them on Google.
Just search for portable executable or l, f and you can read more about them.
Another reason for dependency on operating system is when the program makes system calls.
System calls are useful for performing operations like file opening directory creation or even printing
to console or that terminal system calls are rooted to the operating systems kernel.
Platform dependency can also be due to hardware.
For instance, machine code generated for a program on an x 86 processor would be different from the
machine code generated for the same program on an arm processor.
So the machine on which an executable is executed should be similar to the machine on which it has been
generated.
Otherwise it has to be recompiled using an appropriate compiler.
So both operating system as well as hardware play a part in platform dependency.
Next, we will see how an interpreter can help resolve the platform dependency issue.
But before doing that, let's just do a quick demo of platform dependency.
Och, this is my windows machine.
And here we have a program named as hello.
See, just as in the slides.
And all it does is print this message called Hello World onto the screen, onto the console.
That's all it does.
So let's just go ahead and compile this particular C program.
This is my command prompt.
So let me just say DCC, the DCC compiler hyphen or and the output file would be hello.
So it would generate a load of x e space.
The input file is the c program.
Hello dot c.
So that would have generated a lot.
FC So now let me just run this.
Hello.
And as you can see, it prints the text.
Hello world.
Now let me copy this C program on to a Linux machine and then we will recompile it there.
So I have a Linux box, too.
So let me just so this here is my windows and this is my Linux.
So here is the Galaxy program.
So let me just copy it here.
It's copied.
Let me open my Linux terminal and compile it and run it to.
So I have the command here.
I think the font is not as big as in the other window.
So it's DCC space hyphen or hello and hello.
See the same command.
So let me compile this.
It's compiled.
So to run it, all I will do is dot forward slash.
Hello.
And it would have created hallowed out here.
So it prints the text.
Hello?
Well.
So that is good.
Now let me copy the XY file that God generated on Windows onto the Linux machine and let's see if we
can run it.
So let me copy this here.
This is a load of XY.
Keep it here.
So here to run it.
Let me say pseudo space.
Dot slash.
Hello.
X e.
And it says command not fun so it is not possible to run the dot FC generated on Windows on a Linux
machine.
So one thing that can be done here is either we have to recompile, that's what we did earlier, or
we can use a software called Vine which will allow us to run Windows programs on Linux.
So let me just say.
So here we are on the Linux machine.
Now, as you can see, it is helping us to do this.
So that's just for your information that we can use this software called wine.
So that clearly says that C is not platform independent, so it is platform dependent.
Now let me copy the executable generated on Linux onto Windows and let's just test the same thing.
So here as the executable on Linux.
So let me copy it here.
So let me open my.
And let me just type in.
Hello?
Dot out.
And that's it.
So we are unable to run the executable generated on Linux on the Windows machine.
So that is platform dependency.
And next we will see how interpreter helps resolve this.
And Java, as we said earlier, is platform independent.
So later we will have a Java program and we will also test platform independence.
That's it.
Thank you.
And see you in the next lecture.